Develop stream 2025-01-23 (#678)
ROCm/rocPRIM: CHANGELOG.md

Full documentation for rocPRIM is available at [https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/rocPRIM/en/latest/](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/rocPRIM/en/latest/).

## (Unreleased) rocPRIM 3.x.x for ROCm 6.x.x

### Added

> * Added missing operator `rocprim::key_value_pair::operator==`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `rocprim::key_value_pair::operator==`.
```
the fact that it was added implied that it was missing :)

> * Added `rocprim::unrolled_copy` thread function to copy multiple items inside the thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added the `rocprim::unrolled_copy` function to copy multiple items inside a thread.
```

> * Added `rocprim::unrolled_thread_load` thread function to load multiple items inside the thread using `rocprim::thread_load`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added the `rocprim::unrolled_thread_load` function to load multiple items inside a thread using `rocprim::thread_load`.
```

* Added `rocprim::int128_t` and `rocprim::uint128_t` to benchmarks for improved performance evaluation on 128-bit integers.

> * Added `rocprim::int128_t` to autotuning supported types to improve performance for 128-bit integers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `rocprim::int128_t` to the supported autotuning types to improve performance for 128-bit integers.
```

> * Added `rocprim::merge_inplace` function that allows merging in-place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added the `rocprim::merge_inplace` function for merging in-place.
```

We want to avoid using "allow" as much as possible since it implies granting permission rather than providing and additional feature.

* Added initial value support for warp- and block-level inclusive scan.

### Changed

> * Undeprecated `rocprim::thread_load` uses dereference as default and updated other cache load modifiers.

Reviewer: Was the function undeprecated, or a was a function with the same name added that does the same thing as the deprecated function, but with different parameters?

If that's the case, I suggest:

```suggestion
* A new version of `rocprim::thread_load replaces the deprecated `rocprim::thread_load` function. The new version of `thread_load` uses dereference by default and updates other cache load modifiers 
```

Also there needs to be clarity around "other cache load modifiers"; "other" as compared to what?

Author: To give some background, these functions previously used inline assembly to emit special instructions for specialized load/store methods, for example, bypassing cache, or caching only in some cache levels. While this is useful, the inline assembly hindered optimization a lot, and as a result, using this function was almost always detrimental to performance. They were deprecated as a result. MI300 benefits from some of these methods, so we've improved the implementation to avoid inline assembly where possible. We plan to use these functions inside rocPRIM to improve performance in some locations, but that has not been implemented yet.

Author: I've changed the description of both `rocprim::thread_store` and `rocprim::thread_load`, and I've added a better description of the updates to the cache load modifiers.

> * Undeprecated `rocprim::thread_store` uses dereference as default and updated other cache store modifiers.

Reviewer: Similar question as above regarding whether this is replacing a deprecated version of the function, and what "other" is in relation to.

```suggestion
* A new version of `rocprim::thread_store` replaces the deprecated `rocprim::thread_store`. The new version of `thread_store` uses dereference by default and updates other cache store modifiers.
```

* Changed symbol visibility: all kernels now have hidden visibility, inline namespace with the library version is added, e.g. `rocprim::ROCPRIM_300400_NS::...`. This allows to link multiple libraries built with different versions of rocPRIM.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All kernels now have hidden symbol visibility. All symbols now have inline namespaces that include the library version, for example, `rocprim::ROCPRIM_300400_NS::symbol` instead of `rocPRIM::symbol`, letting the user link multiple libraries built with different versions of rocPRIM.
```
This is aligning it with the language used in hipcub

### Resolved issues

* Fixed device radix sort not returning the correct required temporary storage when a double buffer contains `nullptr`.
* Fixed constness of equality operators (`==` and `!=`) in `rocprim::key_value_pair`.

## (Unreleased) rocPRIM 3.4.x for ROCm 6.4.x

### Added

> * Added hipGraph support to device run-length-encode for non trivial runs (`rocprim::run_length_encode_non_trivial_runs`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added hipGraph support to device run-length-encode for nontrivial runs (`rocprim::run_length_encode_non_trivial_runs`).
```

> * Added configuration autotuning to device run-length-encode for non trivial runs (`rocprim::run_length_encode_non_trivial_runs`) for improved performance on selected architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added configuration autotuning to device run-length-encode for nontrivial runs (`rocprim::run_length_encode_non_trivial_runs`) for improved performance on selected architectures.
```
